# Assignment 6: Software Design

## Requirements

Author a software requirement document on Notion, write a list of requirement statements, rewrite these requirements as
user stories, and export this document to a PDF and include it in the `results` directory. Markdown document local to
the repository is available [here](software-requirement.md).

## Software Architecture

First, identify the input, output, and process of the project feature chosen to implement. Then, author a software 
architecture document on Notion and describe the input, output, and process using any diagram tool to explain the
modules, interfaces, data flow, and any possible constraints. Finally, export this document to a PDF and include it in
the `results` directory. The Markdown document local to this repository is available [here](software-architecture.md).

## UML Diagrams

Author a UML diagram document on Notion drawing the UML diagrams from the in-class exercises, export it to a PDF, and 
include it in the `results` directory. The Markdown document local to this repository is available 
[here](uml-diagram.md).

## Refactoring

We discussed in class the code smell that violates the [Law of Demeter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Law_of_Demeter).
Author a bad code smell document on Notion and explain (1) what the law is and (2) why violating it is a bad code smell,
per our lecture discussions. Export this document to a PDF and include it in the `results` directory. The Markdown 
document local to this repository is available [here](bad-code-smell.md).

## Design Patterns

Select one creational design pattern, one structural design pattern, and one behavioral design pattern. Author a design 
pattern document on Notion and explain (1) what they are and (2) what problem(s) they can solve. Export this document to 
a PDF and include it in the `results` directory. The Markdown document local to this repository is available 
[here](design-pattern.md).

## Testing

Using included `UnitTest-Stack.js`, author `stack.test.js` for included `stack.js` with [Jest](https://jestjs.io/). The
unit tests should check `push()`, `count()`, and `pop()`. Author a unit testing document on Notion and (1) explain how 
to use this library with respect to `stack.js` and (2) include a screenshot of `stack.jest.js` passing each test. Export
this document to a PDF and include it in the `results` directory. The Markdown document local to this repository is 
available [here](unit-test.md). `stack.js` and `stack.test.js` are available [here](src/stack.js) and 
[here](test/stack.test.js), respectively.

## Debugging

Using included `WebStorm` directory, create a WebStorm project and author a driver program to debug `stack.js`. Author
a debugging document on Notion and explain how to use WebStorm as a Node.js debugging tool. Export this document to a 
PDF and include it in the `results` directory. The Markdown document local to this repository is available 
[here](debugging.md).